[docs] add debugging docs (#235)
vllm-project/vllm-spyre: docs/contributing/README.md

## Developing

> ### Docs

Author: Still undecided whether docs should be its own heading or should be within `developing`. We don't really have anything else under `developing`, which is kind of confusing.

python -m pytest -v -x tests/e2e -m cb
```

## Debugging

!!! tip
    You can actually `oc edit` a pod and change the image without having the pod schedule to a different node! (useful for testing if software or hardware is the issue).

1. `Topology Aware Allocation`:

>       1. This mode supports users to request a special set of AIU cards based on `PCI` topology. By using this mode, we can guarantee to pick up AIU cards of a particular class in the node.  

Reviewer: I think we should mention that this bit here is specific to the aiu operator and scheduling workloads onto specific cards (and maybe leave a comment to link out to those docs once they exist). Reading the full rendered page, it is a tiny bit confusing to have the debugging bit here jump straight into operator scheduling stuff without any explanation

         - `Tier0` provides a set of cards in the same `PCI` switch.

>          - `Tier1` provides a set of cards from at most on-hop away `PCI` switch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         - `Tier1` provides a set of cards from at most one-hop away `PCI` switch.
```

      3. The maximum number of allocatable resources in each tier depends on the platform & cluster, but we can get up to:
         - `Tier0` - `4` cards
         - `Tier1` - `8` cards
         - `Tier2` - `16` cards
  
      4. Devices in `tier0` can do `peer-to-peer (P2P) RDMA`, devices on different trees use `Host DMA` sharing files through `/dev/shm`.

    !!! warning
        If you request cards greater than the cards supported by the switch, the pod will never be scheduled. In the above example, if you specify `ibm.com/aiu_pf_tier0: 5` in your yaml, the pod will never be scheduled because the maximum set of cards in `tier0` was specified as `4`.

1. `/opt/sentient/bin/aiu-query-devices` in the pod can be used to see the connectivity between the `AIUs` on the machine. You can also glean this from the env vars that are like `AIU_TIER_\d_SET_\d_RANK_\d`.
  
1. `SPYRE_DEVICES=2,3` can be used to select which devices will be selected for each `RANK`. This is similar to how `CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES` works for GPU.
      1. An alternative is to use `AIU_WORLD_RANK_\d=0000:aa:00.0` to explicitly map ranks to `PCI` addresses (make sure there are no duplicates used at runtime).

> 1. `DTLOG_LEVEL=INFO` (piped to file) can help you see what device addresses are actually in use. Look for the string `Opened: SEN:VFIO`.

Reviewer: While we're at it we might want to just point out all the ways that logging can be configured. There's at least `DTLOG_LEVEL`, `TORCH_SENDNN_LOG`, and `VLLM_LOGGING_LEVEL`

python -m pytest -v -x tests/e2e -m cb
```

## Debugging

!!! tip

>     You can actually `oc edit` a pod and change the image without having the pod schedule to a different node! (useful for testing if software or hardware is the issue).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    You can `oc edit` a pod and change the image without having the pod schedule to a different node. This can be useful for testing whether software or hardware is the issue.
```

  
    !!! example
        `0,2,4,6` will assign rank `0` to AIU index `0`, rank `1` to AIU index `2`, rank `2` to AIU index `4`, and rank `3` to AIU index `6`.
  
    - An alternative is to use `AIU_WORLD_RANK_\d=0000:aa:00.0` to explicitly map ranks to `PCI` addresses (make sure there are no duplicates used at runtime).
  
- A bash script that uses `/opt/sentient/senlib/bin/senlib_unit_test` to check each `AIU` allocated to the pod to see if they work for a basic test:
  
    ```shell
    --8<-- "tools/check_aiu.sh"
    ```

### Logging levels

Various log levels that can be configured:

- `DTLOG_LEVEL` - `TRACE, DEBUG, INFO, WARNING, ERROR`
- `TORCH_SENDNN_LOG` - `WARNING, CRITICAL`
- `VLLM_LOGGING_LEVEL` - `DEBUG, INFO, WARNING, ERROR`

!!! tip
    `DTLOG_LEVEL=INFO` (piped to file) can help you see what device addresses are actually in use. Look for the string `Opened: SEN:VFIO`.

!!! tip
    In order to stop massive log spew, this configuration is ideal:
    ```
    export DTLOG_LEVEL=ERROR
    export TORCH_SENDNN_LOG=CRITICAL
    ```

> ### `Topology Aware Allocation`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Topology Aware Allocation
```

python -m pytest -v -x tests/e2e -m cb
```

> ## Debugging

Reviewer: should debugging be in its own file so there's a nav item called debugging that readers can easily find?

Author: Yeah, I thought about it, technically you are debugging only when you plan on contributing 😄 I'm fine either way.

Reviewer: > technically you are debugging only when you plan on contributing 😄

True true, there is a fine line between:
- debugging -> Something isn't working and I'm being paid to find out why and contribute a fix
- troubleshooting -> Something isn't working and I'm being paid to find a workaround

(I'm fine leaving this as is and we can evolve as needed as we add more to the docs)

1. `Topology Aware Allocation`:
      1. This mode supports users to request a special set of AIU cards based on `PCI` topology. By using this mode, we can guarantee to pick up AIU cards of a particular class in the node.  
         - `Tier0` provides a set of cards in the same `PCI` switch.
         - `Tier1` provides a set of cards from at most on-hop away `PCI` switch.
         - `Tier2` provides a set of cards from at most two-hops away `PCI` switch.

      2. Running a Multi AIU Job using `ibm.com/aiu_pf_tier0,tier1,tier2`:
         - This resource type is used for picking up a topology aware card set, which is required to run tensor parallel (`TP`) workloads more effectively. By using `tierX` class resource, `TP` users can automatically get a best performing card set for the workload.

      3. The maximum number of allocatable resources in each tier depends on the platform & cluster, but we can get up to:
         - `Tier0` - `4` cards
         - `Tier1` - `8` cards
         - `Tier2` - `16` cards
  
      4. Devices in `tier0` can do `peer-to-peer (P2P) RDMA`, devices on different trees use `Host DMA` sharing files through `/dev/shm`.

    !!! warning

>         If you specify `ibm.com/aiu_pf_tier0: 5` in your yaml, the pod will never be scheduled because the maximum set of cards in `tier0` is `4`.

Author: I made the change, let me know how it looks.

1. `/opt/sentient/bin/aiu-query-devices` in the pod can be used to see the connectivity between the `AIUs` on the machine. You can also glean this from the env vars that are like `AIU_TIER_\d_SET_\d_RANK_\d`.
  

> 1. `SPYRE_DEVICES=2,3` can be used to select which devices will be selected for each `RANK`.

Reviewer: We could mention that this is similar to how `CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES` works?

      3. The maximum number of allocatable resources in each tier depends on the platform & cluster, but we can get up to:
         - `Tier0` - `4` cards
         - `Tier1` - `8` cards
         - `Tier2` - `16` cards
  
      4. Devices in `tier0` can do `peer-to-peer (P2P) RDMA`, devices on different trees use `Host DMA` sharing files through `/dev/shm`.

    !!! warning
        If you specify `ibm.com/aiu_pf_tier0: 5` in your yaml, the pod will never be scheduled because the maximum set of cards in `tier0` is `4`.

1. `/opt/sentient/bin/aiu-query-devices` in the pod can be used to see the connectivity between the `AIUs` on the machine. You can also glean this from the env vars that are like `AIU_TIER_\d_SET_\d_RANK_\d`.
  
1. `SPYRE_DEVICES=2,3` can be used to select which devices will be selected for each `RANK`.
      1. An alternative is to use `AIU_WORLD_RANK_\d=0000:aa:00.0` to explicitly map ranks to `PCI` addresses (make sure there are no duplicates used at runtime).
1. `DTLOG_LEVEL=INFO` (piped to file) can help you see what device addresses are actually in use. Look for the string `Opened: SEN:VFIO`.

> 1. A bash script that uses `/opt/sentient/senlib/bin/senlib_unit_test` to check each `AIU` allocated to the pod to see if they work for a basic test:

Author: will move this to its own file
